---
date: 2019-11-29
layout: post.pug
title: Week of 20191129
---

# Recipes project

The [recipes project](https://github.com/polything/recipes) is coming along nicely, and version 0.0.1 should be out when I get back from travel (I didn't manage to get my laptop's SSH key installed on the server before I left home). I've knocked out most basic features like managing user accounts, managing recipes, adding/editing the pantry, and searching for recipes. The remaining things to do before I publish a first draft publicly is implement [deleting pantry items](https://github.com/polything/recipes/issues/195) and editing pantry item [name](https://github.com/polything/recipes/issues/198)/[unit](https://github.com/polything/recipes/issues/197).

Should be fairly simple and straight forward.

One of the more challenging things to address in the future will be displaying operation failures to the user in a manner that is noticeable, actionable (if they choose to address it), minimally confusing (reverting things after optimistically displaying changes), and least interruptive (moving elements to show something or taking up large amounts of space to notify/inform the user).

I haven't done much research but my gut says optimistic UI is a no-no. Same goes for progress bars of any sort other than initial page loading. Mainly because these things lie to the user. Optimistic UI says "oh, yeah, that worked" when the reality is that things don't work that quickly and failures can occur. The last thing I want is a user being lied to and thinking an action (e.g. saving a recipe) worked when it didn't.

# cookingforengineers

A friend brought up an interesting feature to possibly add: a chart like the one used on [cookingforengineers.com](http://www.cookingforengineers.com/recipe/81/Oven-Baked-Chicken-and-Rice). It's a chart that diagrams how to mix ingredients together. I think it's a neat format to display recipes, but it is still missing some critical information like clarification on what "cook rice/butter" means (how long do I cook it for? In a pan/pot? What temp?). Adding this information is definitely useful but does detract from the simplicity of their format.

The discussion with the friends that initially suggested this method resulted in me wanting to define a standard interface for entering recipes so that recipes don't vary in terminology, everyone is speaking the same language, and recipes appear in a standard way so that individual preferences don't make it difficult for someone else to understand the recipe.
